I want to reconsider how we're editing shader files. We have a system for building shaders conditionally. Many of these featuers can be fully optional, and should have zero effect on performance when they're not part of shader compilation.

We can have different tone mapping and coloring methods as conditional shader options as well. We can combine all the repeated parts of the 2D/3D shader code so you wont have to do double edits as much.

Better performance, and better code organization seems possible.




Check the last time CLAUDE.md has been updated. Check the last time ARCHITECTURE.md has been updated.

Then look for the commits and items in docs that have been updated since the earliest of the two above times. Update CLAUDE.md and ARCHITECTURE.md accordingly.



// I want to step back and look at this conceptually. Every pass should be improving quality. If there's so many iterations happening for a single pixel that it's risking overflowing, does that pixel need any more data? 

// I have a theory, once a pixel gets X amount of iterations, then there's no further improving the quality. It should get closer and closer to the "truth", not continually need adaptive scaling. Can we use the per-pixel buffer we've currently got to track how close each pixel is to "finishing" rendering?





Instead of writing everything to one giant texture, would it make sense to divide it up into sections? 
Would this speed things up? We need to examine the pipeline carefully. Are we wasting space? More operations on smaller chunks?





Idea #1, Histogram size slider. If the Histogram is overflowing, increase the size. (Needed anymore?)

Idea #2, Quality slider. If overflows are happening, and the user wants better quality, let them increase the number of passes.



// More general theory. I want to look at a density map of the entire image and tell which areas are prone to overflows, which areas should be "dark", 



Can we combine/compress certain pipeline items? We keep changing the structure.





// Did the per-pixel systems implemented earlier fail because of blend_factor, not because of flaws in the system? I still like the idea of tracking when each area has "enough" iterations on a per-pixel basis instead of leaving it up to a global setting. (This is correct)




Let's double check, none of the post-processing effect require us to regenerate the fractal? Is that currently being handled correctly? I want to make sure we're not regenerating the fractal when we don't need to, and vice versa.



2nd, 3rd time running into needs_update bug with UI.


Thou Shalts (Better Context System)

UI Improvements

Multi-file Architecture tied into Thou Shalts (UI, Buffer, Pipeline, Shaders, Fractal Flames)

Build system checks like buffer sizes.




// How exactly does Fractal Flame point generation work?

// You start with a point (random?) it goes through the transforms once and results in a new point, is it drawn on the screen at this point?

// The result of the previous iteration is used as the input in the next iteration through the transforms, do you keep drawing the new point every iteration? Do you iterate through the transforms 100 times, then draw the points, or would this draw 100 points?

// Are the values isolated to the threads during calculation? Are the results of one thread used as the input for another thread?

// Does each thread function differently with RNG? Does they each get a unique seed for psuedo-RNG?



So there's only so many paths that can be taken.

2 transforms, 1 iterations, 2 paths
2 transforms, 2 iterations, 4 paths
2 transforms, 3 iterations, 8 paths
...

Can we pre-calculate the first X paths before exponential increase is too much to store? The we can cache the results, and skip those paths on future generations? Aren't we repeating the same math a ridiculous amount?







Undo Redo System

My Fractals List, clones selected Preset. Saves previous fractals.



Mouse wheel zoom location doesn't respect rotation.